The Project Gutenberg EBook of Anne Of Avonlea, by Lucy Maud Montgomery

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Anne Of Avonlea

Author: Lucy Maud Montgomery

Release Date: March 7, 2006 [EBook #47]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ASCII

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ANNE OF AVONLEA ***




Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer and David Widger





ANNE OF AVONLEA

by Lucy Maud Montgomery



To

my former teacher
HATTIE GORDON SMITH
in grateful remembrance of her
sympathy and encouragement.


     Flowers spring to blossom where she walks
     The careful ways of duty,
     Our hard, stiff lines of life with her
     Are flowing curves of beauty.
     --WHITTIER



     I         An Irate Neighbor
     II        Selling in Haste and Repenting at Leisure
     III       Mr. Harrison at Home
     IV        Different Opinions47
     V         A Full-fledged Schoolma'am
     VI        All Sorts and Conditions of Men . . . and women
     VII       The Pointing of Duty
     VIII      Marilla Adopts Twins
     IX        A Question of Color
     X         Davy in Search of a Sensation
     XI        Facts and Fancies
     XII       A Jonah Day
     XIII      A Golden Picnic
     XIV       A Danger Averted
     XV        The Beginning of Vacation
     XVI       The Substance of Things Hoped For
     XVII      A Chapter of Accidents
     XVIII     An Adventure on the Tory Road
     XIX       Just a Happy Day
     XX        The Way It Often Happens
     XXI       Sweet Miss Lavendar
     XXII      Odds and Ends
     XXIII     Miss Lavendar's Romance
     XXIV      A Prophet in His Own Country
     XXV       An Avonlea Scandal
     XXVI      Around the Bend
     XXVII     An Afternoon at the Stone House
     XXVIII    The Prince Comes Back to the Enchanted Palace
     XXIX      Poetry and Prose
     XXX       A Wedding at the Stone House




I

An Irate Neighbor


A tall, slim girl, "half-past sixteen," with serious gray eyes and hair
which her friends called auburn, had sat down on the broad red sandstone
doorstep of a Prince Edward Island farmhouse one ripe afternoon in
August, firmly resolved to construe so many lines of Virgil.

But an August afternoon, with blue hazes scarfing the harvest slopes,
little winds whispering elfishly in the poplars, and a dancing slendor
of red poppies outflaming against the dark coppice of young firs in a
corner of the cherry orchard, was fitter for dreams than dead languages.
The Virgil soon slipped unheeded to the ground, and Anne, her chin
propped on her clasped hands, and her eyes on the splendid mass of
fluffy clouds that were heaping up just over Mr. J. A. Harrison's house
like a great white mountain, was far away in a delicious world where a
certain schoolteacher was doing a wonderful work, shaping the destinies
of future statesmen, and inspiring youthful minds and hearts with high
and lofty ambitions.

To be sure, if you came down to harsh facts . . . which, it must be
confessed, Anne seldom did until she had to . . . it did not seem likely
that there was much promising material for celebrities in Avonlea
school; but you could never tell what might happen if a teacher used
her influence for good. Anne had certain rose-tinted ideals of what a
teacher might accomplish if she only went the right way about it; and
she was in the midst of a delightful scene, forty years hence, with a
famous personage . . . just exactly what he was to be famous for was left
in convenient haziness, but Anne thought it would be rather nice to have
him a college president or a Canadian premier . . . bowing low over her
wrinkled hand and assuring her that it was she who had first kindled his
ambition, and that all his success in life was due to the lessons she
had instilled so long ago in Avonlea school. This pleasant vision was
shattered by a most unpleasant interruption.

A demure little Jersey cow came scuttling down the lane and five seconds
later Mr. Harrison arrived . . . if "arrived" be not too mild a term to
describe the manner of his irruption into the yard.

He bounced over the fence without waiting to open the gate, and angrily
confronted astonished Anne, who had risen to her feet and stood looking
at him in some bewilderment. Mr. Harrison was their new righthand
neighbor and she had never met him before, although she had seen him
once or twice.

In early April, before Anne had come home from Queen's, Mr. Robert Bell,
whose farm adjoined the Cuthbert place on the west, had sold out and
moved to Charlottetown. His farm had been bought by a certain Mr. J. A.
Harrison, whose name, and the fact that he was a New Brunswick man, were
all that was known about him. But before he had been a month in Avonlea
he had won the reputation of being an odd person . . . "a crank," Mrs.
Rachel Lynde said. Mrs. Rachel was an outspoken lady, as those of you
who may have already made her acquaintance will remember. Mr. Harrison
was certainly different from other people . . . and that is the essential
characteristic of a crank, as everybody knows.

In the first place he kept house for himself and had publicly stated
that he wanted no fools of women around his diggings. Feminine
Avonlea took its revenge by the gruesome tales it related about his
house-keeping and cooking. He had hired little John Henry Carter of
White Sands and John Henry started the stories. For one thing, there
was never any stated time for meals in the Harrison establishment. Mr.
Harrison "got a bite" when he felt hungry, and if John Henry were around
at the time, he came in for a share, but if he were not, he had to wait
until Mr. Harrison's next hungry spell. John Henry mournfully averred
that he would have starved to death if it wasn't that he got home on
Sundays and got a good filling up, and that his mother always gave him a
basket of "grub" to take back with him on Monday mornings.

As for washing dishes, Mr. Harrison never made any pretence of doing it
unless a rainy Sunday came. Then he went to work and washed them all at
once in the rainwater hogshead, and left them to drain dry.

Again, Mr. Harrison was "close." When he was asked to subscribe to the
Rev. Mr. Allan's salary he said he'd wait and see how many dollars'
worth of good he got out of his preaching first . . . he didn't believe
in buying a pig in a poke. And when Mrs. Lynde went to ask for a
contribution to missions . . . and incidentally to see the inside of
the house . . . he told her there were more heathens among the old woman
gossips in Avonlea than anywhere else he knew of, and he'd cheerfully
contribute to a mission for Christianizing them if she'd undertake it.
Mrs. Rachel got herself away and said it was a mercy poor Mrs. Robert
Bell was safe in her grave, for it would have broken her heart to see
the state of her house in which she used to take so much pride.

"Why, she scrubbed the kitchen floor every second day," Mrs. Lynde told
Marilla Cuthbert indignantly, "and if you could see it now! I had to
hold up my skirts as I walked across it."

Finally, Mr. Harrison kept a parrot called Ginger. Nobody in Avonlea had
ever kept a parrot before; consequently that proceeding was considered
barely respectable. And such a parrot! If you took John Henry Carter's
word for it, never was such an unholy bird. It swore terribly. Mrs.
Carter would have taken John Henry away at once if she had been sure
she could get another place for him. Besides, Ginger had bitten a piece
right out of the back of John Henry's neck one day when he had stooped
down too near the cage. Mrs. Carter showed everybody the mark when the
luckless John Henry went home on Sundays.

All these things flashed through Anne's mind as Mr. Harrison stood,
quite speechless with wrath apparently, before her. In his most amiable
mood Mr. Harrison could not have been considered a handsome man; he was
short and fat and bald; and now, with his round face purple with rage
and his prominent blue eyes almost sticking out of his head, Anne
thought he was really the ugliest person she had ever seen.

All at once Mr. Harrison found his voice.

"I'm not going to put up with this," he spluttered, "not a day longer,
do you hear, miss. Bless my soul, this is the third time, miss . . .  the
third time! Patience has ceased to be a virtue, miss. I warned your aunt
the last time not to let it occur again . . .  and she's let it . . . she's
done it . . . what does she mean by it, that is what I want to know. That
is what I'm here about, miss."

"Will you explain what the trouble is?" asked Anne, in her most
dignified manner. She had been practicing it considerably of late to
have it in good working order when school began; but it had no apparent
effect on the irate J. A. Harrison.

"Trouble, is it? Bless my soul, trouble enough, I should think. The
trouble is, miss, that I found that Jersey cow of your aunt's in my oats
again, not half an hour ago. The third time, mark you. I found her in
last Tuesday and I found her in yesterday. I came here and told your
aunt not to let it occur again. She has let it occur again. Where's your
aunt, miss? I just want to see her for a minute and give her a piece of
my mind . . . a piece of J. A. Harrison's mind, miss."

"If you mean Miss Marilla Cuthbert, she is not my aunt, and she has gone
down to East Grafton to see a distant relative of hers who is very ill,"
said Anne, with due increase of dignity at every word. "I am very sorry
that my cow should have broken into your oats . . .  she is my cow and not
Miss Cuthbert's . . . Matthew gave her to me three years ago when she was
a little calf and he bought her from Mr. Bell."

"Sorry, miss! Sorry isn't going to help matters any. You'd better go and
look at the havoc that animal has made in my oats . . . trampled them from
center to circumference, miss."

"I am very sorry," repeated Anne firmly, "but perhaps if you kept your
fences in better repair Dolly might not have broken in. It is your part
of the line fence that separates your oatfield from our pasture and I
noticed the other day that it was not in very good condition."

"My fence is all right," snapped Mr. Harrison, angrier than ever at this
carrying of the war into the enemy's country. "The jail fence couldn't
keep a demon of a cow like that out. And I can tell you, you redheaded
snippet, that if the cow is yours, as you say, you'd be better employed
in watching her out of other people's grain than in sitting round
reading yellow-covered novels," . . . with a scathing glance at the
innocent tan-colored Virgil by Anne's feet.

Something at that moment was red besides Anne's hair . . . which had
always been a tender point with her.

"I'd rather have red hair than none at all, except a little fringe round
my ears," she flashed.

The shot told, for Mr. Harrison was really very sensitive about his bald
head. His anger choked him up again and he could only glare speechlessly
at Anne, who recovered her temper and followed up her advantage.

"I can make allowance for you, Mr. Harrison, because I have an
imagination. I can easily imagine how very trying it must be to find a
cow in your oats and I shall not cherish any hard feelings against you
for the things you've said. I promise you that Dolly shall never break
into your oats again. I give you my word of honor on THAT point."

"Well, mind you she doesn't," muttered Mr. Harrison in a somewhat
subdued tone; but he stamped off angrily enough and Anne heard him
growling to himself until he was out of earshot.

Grievously disturbed in mind, Anne marched across the yard and shut the
naughty Jersey up in the milking pen.

"She can't possibly get out of that unless she tears the fence down,"
she reflected. "She looks pretty quiet now. I daresay she has sickened
herself on those oats. I wish I'd sold her to Mr. Shearer when he wanted
her last week, but I thought it was just as well to wait until we had
the auction of the stock and let them all go together. I believe it is
true about Mr. Harrison being a crank. Certainly there's nothing of the
kindred spirit about HIM."

Anne had always a weather eye open for kindred spirits.

Marilla Cuthbert was driving into the yard as Anne returned from the
house, and the latter flew to get tea ready. They discussed the matter
at the tea table.

"I'll be glad when the auction is over," said Marilla. "It is too much
responsibility having so much stock about the place and nobody but that
unreliable Martin to look after them. He has never come back yet and he
promised that he would certainly be back last night if I'd give him the
day off to go to his aunt's funeral. I don't know how many aunts he has
got, I am sure. That's the fourth that's died since he hired here a year
ago. I'll be more than thankful when the crop is in and Mr. Barry takes
over the farm. We'll have to keep Dolly shut up in the pen till Martin
comes, for she must be put in the back pasture and the fences there have
to be fixed. I declare, it is a world of trouble, as Rachel says. Here's
poor Mary Keith dying and what is to become of those two children of
hers is more than I know. She has a brother in British Columbia and she
has written to him about them, but she hasn't heard from him yet."

"What are the children like? How old are they?"

"Six past . . . they're twins."

"Oh, I've always been especially interested in twins ever since Mrs.
Hammond had so many," said Anne eagerly. "Are they pretty?"

"Goodness, you couldn't tell . . . they were too dirty. Davy had been
out making mud pies and Dora went out to call him in. Davy pushed her
headfirst into the biggest pie and then, because she cried, he got into
it himself and wallowed in it to show her it was nothing to cry about.
Mary said Dora was really a very good child but that Davy was full of
mischief. He has never had any bringing up you might say. His father
died when he was a baby and Mary has been sick almost ever since."

"I'm always sorry for children that have no bringing up," said Anne
soberly. "You know _I_ hadn't any till you took me in hand. I hope their
uncle will look after them. Just what relation is Mrs. Keith to you?"

"Mary? None in the world. It was her husband . . . he was our third
cousin. There's Mrs. Lynde coming through the yard. I thought she'd be
up to hear about Mary."

"Don't tell her about Mr. Harrison and the cow," implored Anne.

Marilla promised; but the promise was quite unnecessary, for Mrs. Lynde
was no sooner fairly seated than she said,

"I saw Mr. Harrison chasing your Jersey out of his oats today when I was
coming home from Carmody. I thought he looked pretty mad. Did he make
much of a rumpus?"

Anne and Marilla furtively exchanged amused smiles. Few things in
Avonlea ever escaped Mrs. Lynde. It was only that morning Anne had said,

"If you went to your own room at midnight, locked the door, pulled down
the blind, and SNEEZED, Mrs. Lynde would ask you the next day how your
cold was!"

"I believe he did," admitted Marilla. "I was away. He gave Anne a piece
of his mind."

"I think he is a very disagreeable man," said Anne, with a resentful
toss of her ruddy head.
