
"There was one of the Munchkin girls who was so beautiful that I soon
grew to love her with all my heart.  She, on her part, promised to
marry me as soon as I could earn enough money to build a better house
for her; so I set to work harder than ever.  But the girl lived with an
old woman who did not want her to marry anyone, for she was so lazy she
wished the girl to remain with her and do the cooking and the
housework.  So the old woman went to the Wicked Witch of the East, and
promised her two sheep and a cow if she would prevent the marriage.
Thereupon the Wicked Witch enchanted my axe, and when I was chopping
away at my best one day, for I was anxious to get the new house and my
wife as soon as possible, the axe slipped all at once and cut off my
left leg.

"This at first seemed a great misfortune, for I knew a one-legged man
could not do very well as a wood-chopper.  So I went to a tinsmith and
had him make me a new leg out of tin.  The leg worked very well, once I
was used to it.  But my action angered the Wicked Witch of the East,
for she had promised the old woman I should not marry the pretty
Munchkin girl.  When I began chopping again, my axe slipped and cut off
my right leg.  Again I went to the tinsmith, and again he made me a leg
out of tin.  After this the enchanted axe cut off my arms, one after
the other; but, nothing daunted, I had them replaced with tin ones.
The Wicked Witch then made the axe slip and cut off my head, and at
first I thought that was the end of me.  But the tinsmith happened to
come along, and he made me a new head out of tin.

"I thought I had beaten the Wicked Witch then, and I worked harder than
ever; but I little knew how cruel my enemy could be.  She thought of a
new way to kill my love for the beautiful Munchkin maiden, and made my
axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me into
two halves.  Once more the tinsmith came to my help and made me a body
of tin, fastening my tin arms and legs and head to it, by means of
joints, so that I could move around as well as ever.  But, alas!  I had
now no heart, so that I lost all my love for the Munchkin girl, and did
not care whether I married her or not.  I suppose she is still living
with the old woman, waiting for me to come after her.

"My body shone so brightly in the sun that I felt very proud of it and
it did not matter now if my axe slipped, for it could not cut me.
There was only one danger--that my joints would rust; but I kept an
oil-can in my cottage and took care to oil myself whenever I needed it.
However, there came a day when I forgot to do this, and, being caught
in a rainstorm, before I thought of the danger my joints had rusted,
and I was left to stand in the woods until you came to help me.  It was
a terrible thing to undergo, but during the year I stood there I had
time to think that the greatest loss I had known was the loss of my
heart.  While I was in love I was the happiest man on earth; but no one
can love who has not a heart, and so I am resolved to ask Oz to give me
one.  If he does, I will go back to the Munchkin maiden and marry her."

Both Dorothy and the Scarecrow had been greatly interested in the story
of the Tin Woodman, and now they knew why he was so anxious to get a
new heart.

"All the same," said the Scarecrow, "I shall ask for brains instead of
a heart; for a fool would not know what to do with a heart if he had
one."

"I shall take the heart," returned the Tin Woodman; "for brains do not
make one happy, and happiness is the best thing in the world."

Dorothy did not say anything, for she was puzzled to know which of her
two friends was right, and she decided if she could only get back to
Kansas and Aunt Em, it did not matter so much whether the Woodman had
no brains and the Scarecrow no heart, or each got what he wanted.

What worried her most was that the bread was nearly gone, and another
meal for herself and Toto would empty the basket.  To be sure, neither
the Woodman nor the Scarecrow ever ate anything, but she was not made
of tin nor straw, and could not live unless she was fed.




6.  The Cowardly Lion


All this time Dorothy and her companions had been walking through the
thick woods.  The road was still paved with yellow brick, but these
were much covered by dried branches and dead leaves from the trees, and
the walking was not at all good.

There were few birds in this part of the forest, for birds love the
open country where there is plenty of sunshine.  But now and then there
came a deep growl from some wild animal hidden among the trees.  These
sounds made the little girl's heart beat fast, for she did not know
what made them; but Toto knew, and he walked close to Dorothy's side,
and did not even bark in return.

"How long will it be," the child asked of the Tin Woodman, "before we
are out of the forest?"

"I cannot tell," was the answer, "for I have never been to the Emerald
City.  But my father went there once, when I was a boy, and he said it
was a long journey through a dangerous country, although nearer to the
city where Oz dwells the country is beautiful.  But I am not afraid so
long as I have my oil-can, and nothing can hurt the Scarecrow, while
you bear upon your forehead the mark of the Good Witch's kiss, and that
will protect you from harm."

"But Toto!" said the girl anxiously.  "What will protect him?"

"We must protect him ourselves if he is in danger," replied the Tin
Woodman.

Just as he spoke there came from the forest a terrible roar, and the
next moment a great Lion bounded into the road.  With one blow of his
paw he sent the Scarecrow spinning over and over to the edge of the
road, and then he struck at the Tin Woodman with his sharp claws.  But,
to the Lion's surprise, he could make no impression on the tin,
although the Woodman fell over in the road and lay still.

Little Toto, now that he had an enemy to face, ran barking toward the
Lion, and the great beast had opened his mouth to bite the dog, when
Dorothy, fearing Toto would be killed, and heedless of danger, rushed
forward and slapped the Lion upon his nose as hard as she could, while
she cried out:

"Don't you dare to bite Toto!  You ought to be ashamed of yourself, a
big beast like you, to bite a poor little dog!"

"I didn't bite him," said the Lion, as he rubbed his nose with his paw
where Dorothy had hit it.

"No, but you tried to," she retorted.  "You are nothing but a big
coward."

"I know it," said the Lion, hanging his head in shame.  "I've always
known it.  But how can I help it?"

"I don't know, I'm sure.  To think of your striking a stuffed man, like
the poor Scarecrow!"

"Is he stuffed?" asked the Lion in surprise, as he watched her pick up
the Scarecrow and set him upon his feet, while she patted him into
shape again.

"Of course he's stuffed," replied Dorothy, who was still angry.

"That's why he went over so easily," remarked the Lion.  "It astonished
me to see him whirl around so.  Is the other one stuffed also?"

"No," said Dorothy, "he's made of tin."  And she helped the Woodman up
again.

"That's why he nearly blunted my claws," said the Lion.  "When they
scratched against the tin it made a cold shiver run down my back.  What
is that little animal you are so tender of?"

"He is my dog, Toto," answered Dorothy.

"Is he made of tin, or stuffed?" asked the Lion.

"Neither.  He's a--a--a meat dog," said the girl.

"Oh!  He's a curious animal and seems remarkably small, now that I look
at him.  No one would think of biting such a little thing, except a
coward like me," continued the Lion sadly.

"What makes you a coward?" asked Dorothy, looking at the great beast in
wonder, for he was as big as a small horse.

"It's a mystery," replied the Lion.  "I suppose I was born that way.
All the other animals in the forest naturally expect me to be brave,
for the Lion is everywhere thought to be the King of Beasts.  I learned
that if I roared very loudly every living thing was frightened and got
out of my way.  Whenever I've met a man I've been awfully scared; but I
just roared at him, and he has always run away as fast as he could go.
If the elephants and the tigers and the bears had ever tried to fight
me, I should have run myself--I'm such a coward; but just as soon as
they hear me roar they all try to get away from me, and of course I let
them go."

"But that isn't right.  The King of Beasts shouldn't be a coward," said
the Scarecrow.

"I know it," returned the Lion, wiping a tear from his eye with the tip
of his tail.  "It is my great sorrow, and makes my life very unhappy.
But whenever there is danger, my heart begins to beat fast."

"Perhaps you have heart disease," said the Tin Woodman.

"It may be," said the Lion.

"If you have," continued the Tin Woodman, "you ought to be glad, for it
proves you have a heart.  For my part, I have no heart; so I cannot
have heart disease."

"Perhaps," said the Lion thoughtfully, "if I had no heart I should not
be a coward."

"Have you brains?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I suppose so.  I've never looked to see," replied the Lion.

"I am going to the Great Oz to ask him to give me some," remarked the
Scarecrow, "for my head is stuffed with straw."

"And I am going to ask him to give me a heart," said the Woodman.

"And I am going to ask him to send Toto and me back to Kansas," added
Dorothy.

"Do you think Oz could give me courage?" asked the Cowardly Lion.

"Just as easily as he could give me brains," said the Scarecrow.

"Or give me a heart," said the Tin Woodman.

"Or send me back to Kansas," said Dorothy.

"Then, if you don't mind, I'll go with you," said the Lion, "for my
life is simply unbearable without a bit of courage."

"You will be very welcome," answered Dorothy, "for you will help to
keep away the other wild beasts.  It seems to me they must be more
cowardly than you are if they allow you to scare them so easily."

"They really are," said the Lion, "but that doesn't make me any braver,
and as long as I know myself to be a coward I shall be unhappy."

So once more the little company set off upon the journey, the Lion
walking with stately strides at Dorothy's side.  Toto did not approve of
this new comrade at first, for he could not forget how nearly he had
been crushed between the Lion's great jaws.  But after a time he became
more at ease, and presently Toto and the Cowardly Lion had grown to be
good friends.

During the rest of that day there was no other adventure to mar the
peace of their journey.  Once, indeed, the Tin Woodman stepped upon a
beetle that was crawling along the road, and killed the poor little
thing.  This made the Tin Woodman very unhappy, for he was always
careful not to hurt any living creature; and as he walked along he wept
several tears of sorrow and regret.  These tears ran slowly down his
face and over the hinges of his jaw, and there they rusted.  When
Dorothy presently asked him a question the Tin Woodman could not open
his mouth, for his jaws were tightly rusted together.  He became
greatly frightened at this and made many motions to Dorothy to relieve
him, but she could not understand.  The Lion was also puzzled to know
what was wrong.  But the Scarecrow seized the oil-can from Dorothy's
basket and oiled the Woodman's jaws, so that after a few moments he
could talk as well as before.

"This will serve me a lesson," said he, "to look where I step.  For if
I should kill another bug or beetle I should surely cry again, and
crying rusts my jaws so that I cannot speak."

Thereafter he walked very carefully, with his eyes on the road, and
when he saw a tiny ant toiling by he would step over it, so as not to
harm it.  The Tin Woodman knew very well he had no heart, and therefore
he took great care never to be cruel or unkind to anything.

"You people with hearts," he said, "have something to guide you, and
need never do wrong; but I have no heart, and so I must be very
careful.  When Oz gives me a heart of course I needn't mind so much."




7.  The Journey to the Great Oz


They were obliged to camp out that night under a large tree in the
forest, for there were no houses near.  The tree made a good, thick
covering to protect them from the dew, and the Tin Woodman chopped a
great pile of wood with his axe and Dorothy built a splendid fire that
warmed her and made her feel less lonely.  She and Toto ate the last of
their bread, and now she did not know what they would do for breakfast.

"If you wish," said the Lion, "I will go into the forest and kill a
deer for you.  You can roast it by the fire, since your tastes are so
peculiar that you prefer cooked food, and then you will have a very
good breakfast."

"Don't!  Please don't," begged the Tin Woodman.  "I should certainly
weep if you killed a poor deer, and then my jaws would rust again."

But the Lion went away into the forest and found his own supper, and no
one ever knew what it was, for he didn't mention it.  And the Scarecrow
found a tree full of nuts and filled Dorothy's basket with them, so
that she would not be hungry for a long time.  She thought this was
very kind and thoughtful of the Scarecrow, but she laughed heartily at
the awkward way in which the poor creature picked up the nuts.  His
padded hands were so clumsy and the nuts were so small that he dropped
almost as many as he put in the basket.  But the Scarecrow did not mind
how long it took him to fill the basket, for it enabled him to keep
away from the fire, as he feared a spark might get into his straw and
burn him up.  So he kept a good distance away from the flames, and only
came near to cover Dorothy with dry leaves when she lay down to sleep.
These kept her very snug and warm, and she slept soundly until morning.

When it was daylight, the girl bathed her face in a little rippling
brook, and soon after they all started toward the Emerald City.

This was to be an eventful day for the travelers.  They had hardly been
walking an hour when they saw before them a great ditch that crossed
the road and divided the forest as far as they could see on either
side.  It was a very wide ditch, and when they crept up to the edge and
looked into it they could see it was also very deep, and there were
many big, jagged rocks at the bottom.  The sides were so steep that
none of them could climb down, and for a moment it seemed that their
journey must end.

"What shall we do?" asked Dorothy despairingly.

"I haven't the faintest idea," said the Tin Woodman, and the Lion shook
his shaggy mane and looked thoughtful.

But the Scarecrow said, "We cannot fly, that is certain.  Neither can
we climb down into this great ditch.  Therefore, if we cannot jump over
it, we must stop where we are."

"I think I could jump over it," said the Cowardly Lion, after measuring
the distance carefully in his mind.

"Then we are all right," answered the Scarecrow, "for you can carry us
all over on your back, one at a time."

"Well, I'll try it," said the Lion.  "Who will go first?"

"I will," declared the Scarecrow, "for, if you found that you could not
jump over the gulf, Dorothy would be killed, or the Tin Woodman badly
dented on the rocks below.  But if I am on your back it will not matter
so much, for the fall would not hurt me at all."

"I am terribly afraid of falling, myself," said the Cowardly Lion, "but
I suppose there is nothing to do but try it.  So get on my back and we
will make the attempt."

The Scarecrow sat upon the Lion's back, and the big beast walked to the
edge of the gulf and crouched down.

"Why don't you run and jump?" asked the Scarecrow.

"Because that isn't the way we Lions do these things," he replied.
Then giving a great spring, he shot through the air and landed safely
on the other side.  They were all greatly pleased to see how easily he
did it, and after the Scarecrow had got down from his back the Lion
sprang across the ditch again.

Dorothy thought she would go next; so she took Toto in her arms and
climbed on the Lion's back, holding tightly to his mane with one hand.
The next moment it seemed as if she were flying through the air; and
then, before she had time to think about it, she was safe on the other
side.  The Lion went back a third time and got the Tin Woodman, and
then they all sat down for a few moments to give the beast a chance to
rest, for his great leaps had made his breath short, and he panted like
a big dog that has been running too long.

They found the forest very thick on this side, and it looked dark and
gloomy.  After the Lion had rested they started along the road of
yellow brick, silently wondering, each in his own mind, if ever they
would come to the end of the woods and reach the bright sunshine again.
To add to their discomfort, they soon heard strange noises in the
depths of the forest, and the Lion whispered to them that it was in
this part of the country that the Kalidahs lived.

"What are the Kalidahs?" asked the girl.

"They are monstrous beasts with bodies like bears and heads like
tigers," replied the Lion, "and with claws so long and sharp that they
could tear me in two as easily as I could kill Toto.  I'm terribly
afraid of the Kalidahs."

"I'm not surprised that you are," returned Dorothy.  "They must be
dreadful beasts."

The Lion was about to reply when suddenly they came to another gulf
across the road.  But this one was so broad and deep that the Lion knew
at once he could not leap across it.

So they sat down to consider what they should do, and after serious
thought the Scarecrow said:

"Here is a great tree, standing close to the ditch.  If the Tin Woodman
can chop it down, so that it will fall to the other side, we can walk
across it easily."

"That is a first-rate idea," said the Lion.  "One would almost suspect
you had brains in your head, instead of straw."

The Woodman set to work at once, and so sharp was his axe that the tree
was soon chopped nearly through.  Then the Lion put his strong front
legs against the tree and pushed with all his might, and slowly the big
tree tipped and fell with a crash across the ditch, with its top
branches on the other side.

They had just started to cross this queer bridge when a sharp growl
made them all look up, and to their horror they saw running toward them
two great beasts with bodies like bears and heads like tigers.

"They are the Kalidahs!" said the Cowardly Lion, beginning to tremble.

"Quick!" cried the Scarecrow.  "Let us cross over."

So Dorothy went first, holding Toto in her arms, the Tin Woodman
followed, and the Scarecrow came next.  The Lion, although he was
certainly afraid, turned to face the Kalidahs, and then he gave so loud
and terrible a roar that Dorothy screamed and the Scarecrow fell over
backward, while even the fierce beasts stopped short and looked at him
in surprise.

But, seeing they were bigger than the Lion, and remembering that there
were two of them and only one of him, the Kalidahs again rushed
forward, and the Lion crossed over the tree and turned to see what they
would do next.  Without stopping an instant the fierce beasts also
began to cross the tree.  And the Lion said to Dorothy:

"We are lost, for they will surely tear us to pieces with their sharp
claws.  But stand close behind me, and I will fight them as long as I
am alive."

"Wait a minute!" called the Scarecrow.  He had been thinking what was
best to be done, and now he asked the Woodman to chop away the end of
the tree that rested on their side of the ditch.  The Tin Woodman began
to use his axe at once, and, just as the two Kalidahs were nearly
across, the tree fell with a crash into the gulf, carrying the ugly,
snarling brutes with it, and both were dashed to pieces on the sharp
rocks at the bottom.

"Well," said the Cowardly Lion, drawing a long breath of relief, "I see
we are going to live a little while longer, and I am glad of it, for it
must be a very uncomfortable thing not to be alive.  Those creatures
frightened me so badly that my heart is beating yet."

"Ah," said the Tin Woodman sadly, "I wish I had a heart to beat."

This adventure made the travelers more anxious than ever to get out of
the forest, and they walked so fast that Dorothy became tired, and had
to ride on the Lion's back.  To their great joy the trees became
thinner the farther they advanced, and in the afternoon they suddenly
came upon a broad river, flowing swiftly just before them.  On the
other side of the water they could see the road of yellow brick running
through a beautiful country, with green meadows dotted with bright
flowers and all the road bordered with trees hanging full of delicious
fruits.  They were greatly pleased to see this delightful country
before them.

"How shall we cross the river?" asked Dorothy.

"That is easily done," replied the Scarecrow.  "The Tin Woodman must
build us a raft, so we can float to the other side."

So the Woodman took his axe and began to chop down small trees to make
a raft, and while he was busy at this the Scarecrow found on the
riverbank a tree full of fine fruit.  This pleased Dorothy, who had
eaten nothing but nuts all day, and she made a hearty meal of the ripe
fruit.

But it takes time to make a raft, even when one is as industrious and
untiring as the Tin Woodman, and when night came the work was not done.
So they found a cozy place under the trees where they slept well until
the morning; and Dorothy dreamed of the Emerald City, and of the good
Wizard Oz, who would soon send her back to her own home again.




8.  The Deadly Poppy Field


Our little party of travelers awakened the next morning refreshed and
full of hope, and Dorothy breakfasted like a princess off peaches and
plums from the trees beside the river.  Behind them was the dark forest
they had passed safely through, although they had suffered many
discouragements; but before them was a lovely, sunny country that
seemed to beckon them on to the Emerald City.

To be sure, the broad river now cut them off from this beautiful land.
But the raft was nearly done, and after the Tin Woodman had cut a few
more logs and fastened them together with wooden pins, they were ready
to start.  Dorothy sat down in the middle of the raft and held Toto in
her arms.  When the Cowardly Lion stepped upon the raft it tipped
badly, for he was big and heavy; but the Scarecrow and the Tin Woodman
stood upon the other end to steady it, and they had long poles in their
hands to push the raft through the water.

They got along quite well at first, but when they reached the middle of
the river the swift current swept the raft downstream, farther and
farther away from the road of yellow brick.  And the water grew so deep
that the long poles would not touch the bottom.

"This is bad," said the Tin Woodman, "for if we cannot get to the land
we shall be carried into the country of the Wicked Witch of the West,
and she will enchant us and make us her slaves."

"And then I should get no brains," said the Scarecrow.

"And I should get no courage," said the Cowardly Lion.

"And I should get no heart," said the Tin Woodman.

"And I should never get back to Kansas," said Dorothy.

"We must certainly get to the Emerald City if we can," the Scarecrow
continued, and he pushed so hard on his long pole that it stuck fast in
the mud at the bottom of the river.  Then, before he could pull it out
again--or let go--the raft was swept away, and the poor Scarecrow was left
clinging to the pole in the middle of the river.

"Good-bye!" he called after them, and they were very sorry to leave
him.  Indeed, the Tin Woodman began to cry, but fortunately remembered
that he might rust, and so dried his tears on Dorothy's apron.

Of course this was a bad thing for the Scarecrow.

"I am now worse off than when I first met Dorothy," he thought.  "Then,
I was stuck on a pole in a cornfield, where I could make-believe scare
the crows, at any rate.  But surely there is no use for a Scarecrow
stuck on a pole in the middle of a river.  I am afraid I shall never
have any brains, after all!"
